---
title: Linking style
---

**Linking style** refers to how hyperlinks appear in a document. Some linking
styles are discussed on this page.

## Bare URLs/URIs

A bare URL or URI is the simplest style of linking, in which the URL or URI
itself appears in the body of the text. This style of linking is often used in
environments that do not support the concealing of the bare URL or URI, such as
a plaintext email, Facebook post, Facebook message, or Hacker News post.

Note that in some environments (such as a Facebook post), the bare URL is
truncated or abbreviated in parts with ellipses.

## Footnote style linking

## Numerical linking

A numerical link occurs when the text of a link is a number, such as `1` or
`2`.

An example appears in a [post on the GiveWell blog](http://blog.givewell.org/2015/04/09/translational-science-and-the-valley-of-death/),
where the sentence "It appears to me that the creation of NCATS was met with
some negative reaction from the scientific community, as evidenced by three
posts (1, 2, 3) by chemist Derek Lowe" contains three numerical links pointing
to three posts (`1, 2, 3`).

## Here links

A here link is a link in which the text of a link is the word "here" or the
phrase "see here" or something to that effect.

An example is the post "[The Open Philanthropy Project Is Now an Independent
Organization](http://www.openphilanthropy.org/blog/open-philanthropy-project-now-independent-organization)"
on the Open Philanthropy Project blog, in which the word "here" in the sentence
"For some more technical details on the transaction, see the GiveWell post
here" links to a [section in the relevant GiveWell
post](http://blog.givewell.org/2017/06/12/separating-givewell-open-philanthropy-project/#Details).

## Source links

A source link is similar to a here link, where the text of a link is the word
"source", sometimes surrounded by parentheses.

An example appears in a [post on SSC](http://slatestarcodex.com/2015/01/01/untitled/).

## Linking verbs

## Linking nouns

A subset of noun links are title links, in which the text of the link is the
title of the thing being referred to.

## Linking as emphasis

## Linking adjacent words

This style of linking occurs when the writer wants to cite examples of a
particular thing, and links some adjacent words in a relevant part of the
sentence such that each word links out to a different example of the thing.
